Update pattern introduction (#23947)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/pattern-matching.md

---

> title: Pattern Matching overview - C# Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Pattern matching overview - C# guide
```

description: Learn about pattern matching expressions in C#
ms.date: 04/26/2021
ms.technology: csharp-fundamentals
---

> # Pattern Matching overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pattern matching overview
```

> *Pattern matching* is a technique where you test an expression to determine if it has certain characteristics. C# pattern matching provides more concise syntax for testing expressions and taking action when an expression matches. The [`is`](language-reference/keywords/is.md) expression now supports pattern matching to test an expression and conditionally declare a new variable to the result of that expression. The [`switch`](language-reference/operators/switch-expression.md) expression enables you to perform actions based on the first matching pattern for an expression. These two expressions support a rich vocabulary of [*patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md). You have a rich vocabulary to express your algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Pattern matching* is a technique where you test an expression to determine if it has certain characteristics. C# pattern matching provides more concise syntax for testing expressions and taking action when an expression matches. The [`is`](language-reference/operators/is.md) expression now supports pattern matching to test an expression and conditionally declare a new variable to the result of that expression. The [`switch`](language-reference/operators/switch-expression.md) expression enables you to perform actions based on the first matching pattern for an expression. These two expressions support a rich vocabulary of [*patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md). You have a rich vocabulary to express your algorithms.
```

This article provides an overview of scenarios where you can use pattern matching. These techniques can improve the readability and correctness of your code. For a full discussion of all the patterns you can apply, see the article on [patterns](language-reference/operators/patterns.md) in the language reference.

## Null checks

> One of the most common scenarios for pattern matching is to ensure values aren't null. You can test and convert a nullable value type to its underlying type while testing for `null` using the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most common scenarios for pattern matching is to ensure values aren't `null`. You can test and convert a nullable value type to its underlying type while testing for `null` using the following example:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Program.cs" ID="NullableCheck":::

> The preceding code is a [*declaration pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#declaration-and-type-patterns) to test the type of the variable, and assign it to a new variable. The language rules make this technique safer than many others. The variable `number` is only accessible and assigned in the true portion of the `if` clause. If you try to access it elsewhere, either in the `else` clause, or after the `if` block, the compiler issues an error. Secondly, because you're not using the `==` operator, this pattern works when a type has overridden the `==` operator. That makes it an ideal way to check null reference values, adding the `not` pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding code is a [*declaration pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#declaration-and-type-patterns) to test the type of the variable, and assign it to a new variable. The language rules make this technique safer than many others. The variable `number` is only accessible and assigned in the true portion of the `if` clause. If you try to access it elsewhere, either in the `else` clause, or after the `if` block, the compiler issues an error. Secondly, because you're not using the `==` operator, this pattern works when a type overloads the `==` operator. That makes it an ideal way to check null reference values, adding the `not` pattern:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Program.cs" ID="NullReferenceCheck":::

> The preceding example used a [*constant pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#constant-pattern) to compare the variable to `null`. The `not` is a [*logical pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#logical-patterns) that negates the match expression.

Reviewer: > ...that negates the match expression

Nit-picking here about possible confusion: `not` negates rather a pattern, not an expression being matched (for example, what does it mean to negate an integer expression? multiply it by -1?). Although, this is also not ideal. `not` changes the semantics of pattern match application, but I don't know how to express it shortly.

Author: Good point. I reworked it somewhat.

## Type tests

> Another common use for pattern matching is to test a variable to see if it matches a given type. For example, the following code tests if a variable is non-null and implements the <xref:System.IDisposable?displayProperty=nameWithType> interface. If it does, it calls the <xref:System.IDisposable.Dispose> method on that object. The declaration pattern won't match a `null` value, regardless of the compile-time type of the variable. The code below guards against `null`, in addition to guarding against a type that doesn't implement `IDisposable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another common use for pattern matching is to test a variable to see if it matches a given type. For example, the following code tests if a variable is non-null and implements the <xref:System.IDisposable?displayProperty=nameWithType> interface. If it does, it calls the <xref:System.IDisposable.Dispose> method on that object. The declaration pattern doesn't match a `null` value, regardless of the compile-time type of the variable. The code below guards against `null`, in addition to guarding against a type that doesn't implement `IDisposable`.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Program.cs" ID="TypeCheckDisposable":::

> The same tests can be applied in a `switch` expression to test a variable against multiple different types. You can use that information to create better algorithms based on the specific runtime type.

Reviewer: It's an adjective here:
```suggestion
The same tests can be applied in a `switch` expression to test a variable against multiple different types. You can use that information to create better algorithms based on the specific run-time type.
```

## Compare discrete values

You can also test a variable to find a match on specific values. The following code shows one example where you test a value against all possible values declared in an enumeration:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Simulation.cs" ID="PerformOperation":::

> The previous example demonstrates a method dispatch based on the value of an enumeration. The final `_` case is a [*discard pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#discard-pattern) that matches all values. It handles any error conditions where the value doesn't match one of the defined `enum` values. If you omit that switch arm, the compiler warns that you haven't handled all possible input values. At runtime, the `switch` expression throws an exception if the object being examined doesn't match any of the switch arms. You could use numeric constants instead of a set of enum values. You can also use this similar technique for constant string values that represent the commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous example demonstrates a method dispatch based on the value of an enumeration. The final `_` case is a [*discard pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#discard-pattern) that matches all values. It handles any error conditions where the value doesn't match one of the defined `enum` values. If you omit that switch arm, the compiler warns that you haven't handled all possible input values. At run time, the `switch` expression throws an exception if the object being examined doesn't match any of the switch arms. You could use numeric constants instead of a set of enum values. You can also use this similar technique for constant string values that represent the commands:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Simulation.cs" ID="PerformStringOperation":::

> The preceding example shows the same algorithm, but using string values instead of an enum. You would use this scenario if your application responds to text commands instead of a regular data format. In all these patterns, the *discard pattern* ensures that you handle and report an error for every input. The compiler helps you by making sure every possible input value is handled.

Reviewer: Sounded like every input results in an error report
```suggestion
The preceding example shows the same algorithm, but uses string values instead of an enum. You would use this scenario if your application responds to text commands instead of a regular data format. In all these examples, the *discard pattern* ensures that you handle every input. The compiler helps you by making sure every possible input value is handled.
```

## Relational patterns

> You can use [*Relational patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#relational-patterns) to test how a value compares to constants. For example, the following code returns the state of water based on the temperature in Fahrenheit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [*relational patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#relational-patterns) to test how a value compares to constants. For example, the following code returns the state of water based on the temperature in Fahrenheit:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Simulation.cs" ID="RelationalPattern":::

> The preceding code also demonstrates the conjunctive `and` [*Logical pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#logical-patterns) to check that both relational patterns match. You can also use a disjunctive `or` pattern to check that either pattern matches. The two relational patterns are surround by parentheses, which you can use around any pattern for clarity. The final two switch arms handle the cases for the melting point and the boiling point. Without those two arms, the compiler warns you that your logic doesn't cover every possible input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding code also demonstrates the conjunctive `and` [*logical pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#logical-patterns) to check that both relational patterns match. You can also use a disjunctive `or` pattern to check that either pattern matches. The two relational patterns are surrounded by parentheses, which you can use around any pattern for clarity. The final two switch arms handle the cases for the melting point and the boiling point. Without those two arms, the compiler warns you that your logic doesn't cover every possible input.
```

## Multiple inputs

All the patterns you've seen so far have been checking one input. You can write patterns that examine multiple properties of an object. The following code examines the number of items and the value of an order to calculate a discounted price:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/OrderProcessor.cs" ID="PropertyPattern":::

> The first two arms examine two properties of the `Order`. The third examines only the cost. The next checks against `null`, and the final matches any other value. If the `Order` type defines a suitable [`Deconstruct](deconstruct.md) method, you can omit the property names from the pattern and use deconstruction to examine properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first two arms examine two properties of the `Order`. The third examines only the cost. The next checks against `null`, and the final matches any other value. If the `Order` type defines a suitable [`Deconstruct`](deconstruct.md) method, you can omit the property names from the pattern and use deconstruction to examine properties:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/OrderProcessor.cs" ID="DeconstructPattern":::

> The preceding code demonstrates the [*Positional pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#positional-pattern) where the properties are deconstructed for the expression. This article provided a tour of the kinds of code you can write with pattern matching in C#. The articles below show more examples of using patterns in scenarios, and the full vocabulary of patterns available to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding code demonstrates the [*positional pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#positional-pattern) where the properties are deconstructed for the expression.

This article provided a tour of the kinds of code you can write with pattern matching in C#. The articles below show more examples of using patterns in scenarios, and the full vocabulary of patterns available to use.
```

---
title: Pattern Matching overview - C# Guide
description: Learn about pattern matching expressions in C#
ms.date: 04/26/2021

> ms.topic: overview

Author: @tdykstra 

Would you consider this an "overview"? It's an overview of the pattern matching features, which is more or less what the Contributor Guide says, but it's not in the correct node in the TOC yet. It's also more written for current C# developers than as part of an "onboarding' topic.

The other alternative is to leave it as the default.

Reviewer 2: From what I recall of that discussion, "overview" was supposed to be limited to the one-overview-per-service MVC-compliant docs in the Azure doc set, and we never got approval to use it in our doc set. Whether we could use it or not was an open question that to my knowledge never got resolved, so I would stick with the default "conceptual".

---
title: Pattern matching overview - C# guide
description: Learn about pattern matching expressions in C#
ms.date: 04/26/2021
ms.technology: csharp-fundamentals
---

# Pattern matching overview

> *Pattern matching* is a technique where you test an expression to determine if it has certain characteristics. C# pattern matching provides more concise syntax for testing expressions and taking action when an expression matches. The [`is`](language-reference/operators/is.md) expression now supports pattern matching to test an expression and conditionally declare a new variable to the result of that expression. The [`switch`](language-reference/operators/switch-expression.md) expression enables you to perform actions based on the first matching pattern for an expression. These two expressions support a rich vocabulary of [*patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md). You have a rich vocabulary to express your algorithms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Pattern matching* is a technique where you test an expression to determine if it has certain characteristics. C# pattern matching provides more concise syntax for testing expressions and taking action when an expression matches. The "[`is`](language-reference/operators/is.md) expression" now supports pattern matching to test an expression and conditionally declare a new variable to the result of that expression. The "[`switch`](language-reference/operators/switch-expression.md) expression" enables you to perform actions based on the first matching pattern for an expression. These two expressions support a rich vocabulary of [*patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md). You have a rich vocabulary to express your algorithms.
```

## Relational patterns

You can use [*relational patterns*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#relational-patterns) to test how a value compares to constants. For example, the following code returns the state of water based on the temperature in Fahrenheit:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/Simulation.cs" ID="RelationalPattern":::

The preceding code also demonstrates the conjunctive `and` [*logical pattern*](language-reference/operators/patterns.md#logical-patterns) to check that both relational patterns match. You can also use a disjunctive `or` pattern to check that either pattern matches. The two relational patterns are surrounded by parentheses, which you can use around any pattern for clarity. The final two switch arms handle the cases for the melting point and the boiling point. Without those two arms, the compiler warns you that your logic doesn't cover every possible input.

## Multiple inputs

> All the patterns you've seen so far have been checking one input. You can write patterns that examine multiple properties of an object. The following code examines the number of items and the value of an order to calculate a discounted price:

Reviewer 3: This is the only example where there is an object that is being evaluated, and it made me ask myself before seeing it used - what the shape of the object is. It would be really helpful to first show the `Order` object and then show the pattern matching on its members as it is easier to follow from a mental model stand point.

> Show me the thing, then show me what you do with it.

> All the patterns you've seen so far have been checking one input. You can write patterns that examine multiple properties of an object. The following code examines the number of items and the value of an order to calculate a discounted price:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the patterns you've seen so far have been checking one input. You can write patterns that examine multiple properties of an object. Consider the following `Order` record:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/OrderProcessor.cs" range="9":::

The preceding positional record type declares two members at explicit positions. Appearing first is the `Items`, then the order's `Cost`. For more information, see [Records](../language-reference/builtin-types/record).

The following code examines the number of items and the value of an order to calculate a discounted price:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/OrderProcessor.cs" ID="PropertyPattern":::

The first two arms examine two properties of the `Order`. The third examines only the cost. The next checks against `null`, and the final matches any other value. If the `Order` type defines a suitable [`Deconstruct`](deconstruct.md) method, you can omit the property names from the pattern and use deconstruction to examine properties:

> :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/patterns/OrderProcessor.cs" ID="DeconstructPattern":::

Reviewer 3: I 💜 this example!
